My name is John Geleynsse.
I'm the Senior Director of
Technology Evangelism.
We're the guys putting on the tech talks.
We've done this for years.
We've been to Berlin before,
and it's always been a really
great experience to be here,
so we're pretty excited to be back.
I want to welcome you this morning.
We've got a great day planned,
a lot of really technical content,
so take out your laptops
and get ready to take notes.
We've got a real busy schedule as well,
so we'll get into the details
of what the schedule looks
like throughout this morning,
but we're really happy to be here.
So we've got, as I said,
a great day planned,
a lot of deep technical content
about programming for iOS 7.
We've got a great day planned,
a lot of deep technical content
about programming for iOS 7.
So before I get into sort of the
main content of this kickoff,
I wanted to start with a couple of
significant milestones of things that
we've done over the last year that
address and respond to the feedback
that we've heard from so many of you.
So we recently announced that we've
shipped over 700 million iOS devices,
which is a lot of devices for your apps,
and it's an enormous audience
for you as a developer.
And that includes the 9 million
new iPhones that shipped in the
record-breaking 9 million devices
that were shipped in the first
three days when these went on sale.
So some pretty incredible
sales numbers there.
And obviously all these
devices shipped with iOS 7,
but since iOS 7 updating is so easy,
more than 200 million of these
700 million devices were updated
to iOS 7 in the first weekend
in which iOS 7 was available.
So that was a huge start,
a real fast start for us.
We were really excited with it,
and it's the fastest software
upgrade in the history of iOS,
and it shows that iOS 7 is the
most popular iOS update so far.
And it's so popular, in fact,
that as of just the other day,
we've got stats that show that
we have 74% of the installed
base is running iOS 7.
That's pretty much two-thirds
of all iOS devices.
We're running iOS 7.
And so clearly, this is a huge ramp-up to
the new operating system,
and clearly customers
love having the latest,
greatest software running on the latest,
greatest hardware.
And so you definitely want to be
there with your apps on iOS 7.
Now, if you need to run on iOS 6 as well,
then you can, you know,
obviously consider supporting adding
legacy support for those customers.
But today... Is all about iOS 7,
and we want to teach you how to
take advantage of everything that
is on this release because that's
where so many of our customers are.
Now, we've listened to your
feedback over the last year,
and we've done a bunch of things for you.
And I wanted to talk
about a few of these.
First is we announced App Transfer.
And this lets you move your
app from one team to another.
For example, if you sell your app or
your company gets acquired,
this is a big request from
the developer community.
And this is now available for you.
And recently,
over-the-air download limits were raised
from 50 megabytes to 100 megabytes.
And this makes it even easier
for people to get your apps,
even if they're not connected to Wi-Fi.
So as you move to universal binary,
as you add support for Retina Display,
as you add all kinds of new
capabilities to your apps,
they've gotten bigger
and bigger over time.
And so this is a pretty big deal.
[ Transcript missing ]
So that's what we've done in the past,
but now I'd like to shift
our attention to the present.
You know, 2013 was a busy year for us,
and we got a lot of stuff done,
and it was a really important
year for several reasons.
We saw primarily a fundamental
evolution in the iOS platform in 2013,
and it started with the
introduction of iOS 7 at WWDC.
iOS 7, as you know,
is the next generation of iOS,
and it's the most significant
update to iOS since 2007.
You know, we're 2013 right now,
and it's hard to believe that iOS 7 is,
you know, six or seven years old,
eight years old.
I mean,
it seems like time has just flown.
I mean, I've been at Apple for 14 years,
and I remember the day that iOS,
you know, came out,
that the iPhone was introduced.
And since then, we've had, you know,
six major releases of iOS.
Now we've got the seventh,
and it is the most
significant release we've had.
And as I mentioned before,
we've got hundreds of millions
of customers on board with iOS 7
running on their devices already.
And as you know,
iOS 7 has got this great new
user experience that focuses
on people's content and brings
a new level of physical realism
to the overall user experience.
And we're going to get into this in a
lot more detail in a session following
this one for user interface design.
But iOS 7 brings, you know,
motion effects that
give a sense of depth.
It brings text that's far
more legible and dynamic.
And there's a lot more-- there's
new gestures and new capabilities.
So the overall user experience of
iOS 7 has changed pretty dramatically
from what was there before.
And we're seeing a lot of apps
already that have been redesigned
to take advantage of the new
user interface of iOS 7 and to
fit into this new environment.
And I want to show you
a couple of examples.
Here's an exciting version
of--here's a new app called
Sky Guide from 5th Star Labs.
And this is a stargazing app,
and they introduced-- you know,
they worked on the UI for iOS
7 and introduced translucency,
parallax, and dynamic type.
So these are some initial
things that they've done,
but the effect already on the
app has been pretty profound.
Zite, one of my favorite apps.
It's an intelligent magazine helping
you to discover interesting things,
articles that are out on the
net based on your interests.
And they completely revamped the
UI and looked to clean up their design,
improve the legibility of their content.
They enlarged photos
and went edge to edge.
They added some subtle motion effects
as you're scrolling through the content.
And they added support
for iOS 7 gestures.
So again, some preliminary steps
for this developer,
but the result is a pretty
dramatic change to the app as
compared to the iOS 6 version.
Here's another app called Just.me.
It's a sharing app that
offers the best of texting,
email, and networking all in one app.
And they worked hard to remove all
of the extra adornments that they
had on screen and to give space to
the content that really mattered,
which was the content that
users are producing in the app.
They focused on bigger text,
edge-to-edge photos,
and minimal distractions.
And the result is
something that's pretty,
pretty gorgeous.
Here's Evernote.
It won an Apple Design Award this
past year at WWDC.
And on the left is the iOS 6 version
that won an Apple Design Award,
along with their Mac app and
their Safari extension and all
the stuff they were doing on
the various Apple platforms.
And on the right side,
you've got the current
shipping iOS 7 version.
And Evernote chose to
reinvent the app around iOS 7.
So they stopped, they looked at iOS 7,
and they decided to just redo
the entire experience as if
it was their first version.
And that meant that they could
throw out some old ideas,
some old ways of thinking about things,
and restructure the content,
lay it out differently,
and really optimize it.
And they did that, and they did that,
and they did that, and they did that,
and they did that.
And so as part of the redesign,
they added translucency
and depth with UIKit.
They added multitasking background sync.
They did AirDrop for sharing of notes.
And they did TextKit support for
better text management and layout.
And pretty dramatic change
from where they were before.
Here's American Airlines with a
completely redesigned app for iOS 7.
On the left is their
previous iOS 6 version,
and on the right is
their new iOS 7 version.
And the goal that they had was to
improve legibility and introduce
a much stronger design aesthetic.
And the design that they did for iOS
7 brings in translucency and depth.
It's a much cleaner design.
It focuses on the content
that you really care about,
and so there's greater legibility for
the things that matter most to you.
And the result is pretty dramatic.
And so these are five examples
of apps that have been
completely redesigned for iOS 7,
but there are so many more.
These are a bunch of apps that have
done a ton of work to revamp for iOS 7.
You've got Reader 2, Fantastical 2,
Tweetbot 3, favorites of many of you,
I'm sure, Perfect Weather, PCalc.
GoBank.
It was a great app on iOS 6,
and they just tuned it, cleaned it up,
widened things out, increased legibility.
Again, many of these developers did
many of the similar things
that their peers have done,
and the results are dramatic.
Argus, a new app for fitness.
DJ2, new to iOS 7,
a new app that's taking
advantage of things on iOS 7.
HomeSnap Real Estate, great app,
completely redesigned for iOS 7.
Vimeo.
Albumatic, NBC, Snap Guide, Open Table,
and then the Ted app.
These are all fantastic
apps in and of themselves,
and every one of these developers
took the time to do-- to make
a huge effort and to clean up,
to change, to improve legibility,
and to optimize their
UI for-- to fit in with iOS 7.
So a real terrific job from
all of these developers.
And so these are just, you know,
a small set of the hundreds of
thousands of apps that are being updated
for iOS 7 every day and that have
transitioned to the new UI for iOS 7.
And as I said,
we'll have a session following
this one where we're going to go
into great detail about how you
can transition your UI to iOS 7.
We're going to talk about icon design,
line thickness, going edge-to-edge,
improving legibility of text,
all kinds of things that
you need to know about.
That you may have read about but didn't
necessarily know how to approach.
And so we'll go into that detail.
Now,
in addition to the new UI with iOS 7,
there's a whole lot of new technology
for you to use in the iOS 7 SDK.
With every one of the releases
of iOS over the years,
we've come out with an SDK that
has new technology for you to use.
And this technology comes in the
form of new frameworks or major
enhancements to existing frameworks.
And none of this is new news to you.
So many of you are
experienced developers.
Pretty much everybody in the room
has got an app on the App Store,
and so you know this.
But I just want to stay high level for a
moment in this kickoff session and just
remind you that it's in the SDK that
you have the building blocks that
you're going to use to build your app,
obviously.
But it's with these building
blocks that you can choose.
It's how you choose to assemble
these building blocks that makes
the difference between an average
app and an app that really shines.
And on top of the new UI and
the new technology in the SDK,
there's a whole new generation
of hardware that's just come out.
And most recently, we introduced the iPad
Air and the iPad Mini,
both of them with Retina display.
And so now every single
one of our iOS devices,
I believe, is Retina-enabled.
And these new devices
are incredibly powerful.
And they're built around the new
A7 chip with 64-bit architecture.
And they've got the
M7 motion coprocessor.
And on top of that,
we introduced the iPhone 5s,
which preceded the iPad
Air and the iPad mini Retina.
But it's another powerful iOS device,
and it's built on the same A7 chip,
obviously, and it features the
Touch ID fingerprint sensor,
which adds a whole new level
of convenience while also being
more secure at the same time.
And all of these things combine,
all of these powerful new devices
and the release of iOS 7 combine
to create and form a new foundation
for next-generation apps.
And helping you get the most
out of this new foundation
is what today is all about.
We want to help you understand
what a next-generation app
is and how to build one.
So let's talk about what
a next-generation app is.
First and foremost, next-generation apps,
of course, have to be great.
And I talk about great apps all the time.
If you've ever been to a
Tech Talk where I've kicked off the
session before or kicked off before,
I've talked about great apps.
And yet, over and over,
as I meet with developers,
people still don't have a good handle
on what the definition of great is.
So what makes a great app?
Well, it's not just the
technology that you adopt.
It's not just the
APIs that you integrate.
[ Transcript missing ]
What people care about is
what your app lets them do.
People care about the solution,
not so much the collection of
technologies or the features per se.
And so great apps offer
a fantastic solution.
In other words,
developing a great app is really all
about making something that's intuitive,
engaging, beautiful, and very,
very useful.
Now, there are a lot of characteristics
and traits that make an app great.
And I've talked about these before.
There's a video on the developer
website that's somewhat dated now,
but where I go into depth
on many of these terms.
And we've worked with
developers for years now on iOS,
talking about these traits.
And they never get old.
In fact, these traits are evergreen.
They apply equally to iOS
as they do to apps on OS X.
And it's important to know that
building apps with these traits
is essential if you want to
build something that's the best.
And I thought it would be good to
talk for a moment and highlight a few
of these so that you understand them
a little bit more in more detail.
So first is that great apps are inviting.
This means that they leave
a great first impression.
They have an attractive
design that draws people in.
And making a great first
impression begins on the App Store.
It's a function of your icon,
which is kind of your business card.
It's your calling card.
Leaving a great first impression is a
function of the App Store description
and how you talk about your app.
It's a function of which
screenshots you've chosen
to feature in the App Store.
And then the first impression
of your app is carried on and
reinforced or broken down across
every subsequent launch of the app.
So if your app gets people into the
app and gets them up and running,
doing something interesting quickly,
looking at interesting content
and doing what they really want,
you're going to constantly reinforce
that great first impression that they had
from the moment they started using it.
But if the app doesn't do those things
and is slow to start and doesn't get
people into what they want to get into,
puts barriers in their way,
you're going to erode that
great first impression.
So one way or another,
people are going to make an impression.
And you will have a lasting impression
with people that's either positive or
negative based on how your app behaves.
But great apps are inviting.
They draw you in and leave
a great first impression.
Great apps are also state-of-the-art,
and this means that they take advantage
of the latest hardware and software.
They make efficient use of the CPU and
the GPU to get every last ounce
of performance out of the system.
And they take advantage of the
latest hardware enhancements.
I mean,
we're always featuring our new devices.
We're always putting the spotlight on
the newest iPhone or the newest iPad
and what it can do in its performance.
Or, you know, over the years,
we introduced things like the
gyroscope or accelerometer,
or now we've done the M7.
We've got these new things
we put into the hardware,
and apps that take advantage of those
hardware capabilities are apps that
get the spotlight on them as well.
and by integrating with the latest APIs,
state-of-the-art apps can also add
really cool new capabilities and features
based on what those technologies can do.
And great apps are well-designed.
And well-designed apps have
high-quality visual design and
show a lot of attention to detail.
Well-designed apps are easy to
use and familiar by the people
that they were intended for.
So if you're designing for, say,
a radiologist versus a commercial
airline pilot versus a football coach,
you're going to have apps that
are designed for very different
audiences and for very different uses.
And well-designed apps are easy to use
for the audience they were intended for.
They're familiar to the audience
that they were intended for.
They're well-organized.
They're uncluttered.
They're simple.
They're efficient.
They're intuitive.
They're stable.
I mean, these are high bars, right?
But great apps can do these things.
And great apps are well-designed.
And frankly,
well-designed apps just feel right.
They're perfectly balanced.
They're just like, you know,
that one tool that's made
specifically for a certain use case.
And lastly, great apps stand out.
They get noticed for all
of the right reasons.
You know,
there's really nothing like them.
[ Transcript missing ]
and it uses device motion and core
location and is built around OpenGL ES.
And the result is an
app that is designed,
valuable, standout, memorable,
and state-of-the-art.
And here's Procreate,
another Apple Design Award-winning app.
This is an amazingly deep and powerful
drawing tool that can be used by artists
and illustrators to do real work.
I mean,
this is a powerhouse of iOS technologies.
It uses modern,
concurrent programming technologies
that leverage the hardware.
is the founder of OpenGL ES.
It's optimized for
graphics around OpenGL ES,
and it delivers
state-of-the-art performance
and unbelievable responsiveness.
It renders canvas sizes up to 4K by 4K,
and it uses core Bluetooth to
connect to accessories like
pressure-sensitive styluses.
And on top of that,
it's got advanced layer
management and compositing.
And the list goes on.
And there are so many great apps.
These are just 14 of the most
recent Apple Design Award winners
over the last two years.
I mean, you've got DM1, Paper by 53,
Where's My Water, National Parks,
Ridiculous Fishing, right?
WWF Federation, Evernote, Badland, Yahoo,
Letterpress, Procreate, Sky Gamblers,
right?
All of these apps are state-of-the-art.
They're inviting.
They're well-designed.
They're connected.
They're all of the attributes
that I spoke of around great apps.
And so these are some of the basic traits
that you need to incorporate into your
app in order to make it really great.
And this is really just the starting
point for a next-generation app,
which is what we're
really talking about now.
So in addition to being great,
there are five notable additional
attributes or characteristics
of next-generation apps.
The first is that they're optimized
for performance on the A7.
The A7 has been
re-architected for 64-bit,
making our newest products the
world's first 64-bit mobile devices,
delivering desktop-class
performance in your hand.
I mean, think about this for a moment.
What does desktop class
performance really mean?
Go back a few years to some
of the incredible apps that,
say, won an Apple Design Award on
Mac OS X or these amazing apps in
science and technology that have
come out over the years on OS X.
That's desktop class performance
running on a Mac Pro.
And so think of some of the
apps that are on these kinds of,
you know,
some of these kinds of apps running on
really powerful hardware like a Mac Pro,
and you've got the standard
for desktop class computing.
Now imagine that functionality
and those kinds of apps redesigned
for the multi-touch experience
of iOS and deployed onto an iPad
Air with Retina Display running A7.
I mean,
nobody has done anything like this
on a 64-bit computing platform,
mobile computing platform.
And the A7 is a brand-new,
brand-new CPU and GPU which
provide tons of computational
power for demanding apps and games.
And we'll go into depth
about this more today,
but I want to take a moment
just to explain what 64-bit
architecture in the A7 really means.
First of all,
it means that we've got twice as
many integer and floating-point
registers as earlier processors.
And this lets the LLVM compiler
use these extra registers to
optimize low-level assembly and
Objective-C runtime performance.
So the LLVM compiler is able to optimize
the LLVM compiler to a certain extent
and optimize the LLVM compiler to
a certain extent and optimize the
LLVM compiler to a certain extent
And 64 bit also means that we
offer faster performance for
both 64 bit and 32 bit apps,
because the entire
operating system itself,
iOS, is optimized for 64 bit.
It actually runs 32 bit apps faster.
And if you're worried that
this will be a big change,
i.e., moving to 64 bit,
for you and for your app, don't worry.
You can easily maintain a
single code base and target
both 32 bit and 64 bit devices.
And we've got a session all
about this later on today.
I believe it's right after lunch.
And so the key point here is that
the 64-bit architecture of the A7
is the future of the iOS platform.
And so it's not okay to just
delay the move to 64-bit.
Now is the time to move.
This is the future.
It's here now, and you've got to move
your apps to 64-bit.
Now,
the new A7 chip improves CPU performance
by up to 2x when compared to the A6,
which was the processor
that was in the iPhone 5,
for example.
And a great example of an app
that benefits from this new
architecture is DJ2 by Algorithm,
based here in Germany.
It's a great company.
They've done some fantastic
apps that have won
Apple Design Awards over the years.
And DJ2 on A7 is now able to do
things it couldn't do before.
And an example of this is their new
harmonic match feature that can analyze
the musical key of a song in real time
and then transpose the key to ensure
the two songs match up musically as
they transition from one to the next.
And on previous iPhone hardware,
say running on an A6,
on an earlier version of iOS,
this wasn't possible because there
was limited horsepower and it could
take anywhere from 10 to 15 seconds.
Thank you.
And now on A7, with 64-bit,
DJ can get these effects to
occur in real time and still have
processing cycles for a smoother user
experience and better visual effects.
And if there are folks
from Algorithm here today,
make sure you introduce yourself
to people so that others can
learn from you and your expertise.
Now, another example of an app
that benefits from the A7 is
Sketchbook Mobile from Autodesk.
This is an app that is
incredibly CPU-bound.
And the A7 allowed Autodesk to
increase the maximum size of
brushes and other parts of the app
to twice their previous size while
maintaining their target frame rate,
even on the much larger canvas sizes.
And the A7 also allowed them to
create completely new canvas sizes,
increasing canvas sizes up
to 33% larger than before.
And now they can support drawing on
a full-resolution 8-megapixel image.
without any performance degradation.
So with very little effort,
simply moving to A7 and going to 64-bit,
the Autodesk has been able to make some
pretty significant strides forward.
And in addition to
CPU performance improvements,
the A7 gives you two times faster
GPU performance than the A6 chip.
Now, as many of you know,
having a super-fast
GPU provides a lot of benefits.
Benefits such as increased
graphics fidelity within your app,
decreased wait times,
and increased drawing performance,
smoother animations, crisper lighting,
more realistic visual effects,
and basically an entirely
new class of apps,
frankly.
The GPU on the A7 is so capable that we
are already seeing a completely new class
of apps and unbelievable performance.
In other words,
you have a lot of horsepower to
take advantage of with the A7.
Right?
Right.
And pretty much you're unlimited
now in terms of what you can do,
and you don't need to
limit yourself anymore.
You don't need to constrain your
code and hold things back because
the hardware can't handle it.
It can handle it.
You can do, show,
and compute more than ever before.
Now, a great app that shows off both
of these CPU and GPU improvements
is Infinity Blade 3.
We recently demoed this app at
the launch of the iPhone 5s.
And the app implements super high
fidelity graphics with four times
the texture detail and four times
the polygon count of any console
work that these guys have ever done.
I mean,
they kept turning up the dial on detail.
and the CPU and the GPUs to keep up
with it without dropping frame rates.
[ Transcript missing ]
Now, fitness apps are obviously
a great example of where M7
can make a big difference.
But I think what's even more exciting
is the endless possibilities for
other apps that aren't currently
measuring motion data but could.
I mean, think about it.
How much better of an experience could
you offer if your app changed its
behavior based on where people are,
what direction they're facing,
and how active they are?
I mean, there's some very interesting
possibilities here.
And I think we're going to start
to see a lot of these things
benefit more apps over time.
So we'll talk more
about M7 later on today.
And so being motion aware lets your
app use the M7 to know how a device
is moving around and how you can
customize the experience in your app.
And that's the second attribute
of being a next gen app.
Now, the third attribute of
a next generation app,
in addition to being
optimized for 64-bit,
being great, to be location aware.
And in particular, with iBeacon,
which we announced at
WWC a few months ago.
I mean, think of iBeacon as a tiny radio
that you can put almost anywhere.
It's a signal that can be
picked up by an iPhone.
That iPhone can then determine
where the iBeacon is with
a high degree of accuracy.
Now, what's interesting and what
many developers forget is
that there are millions of iOS
devices today that are iBeacons.
I mean, there are hundreds of millions of
devices that have already moved to iOS 7,
and those devices can enable the
iBeacon functionality within iOS
7 and become iBeacons themselves.
And what this means is that you can
start to build iBeacon-based solutions,
and you can, if nothing else,
you can use iOS devices to begin
experimenting with iBeacon and
figuring out what support you
want to have in your app today.
Since you can turn on this functionality
and test your ideas with existing
iOS devices that you already have.
[ Transcript missing ]
And another example might be in
a museum with its own app that
first simply notifies people
that they're nearby and then,
you know, lets them check in.
So this app would be aware of the
fact that it's near the museum.
And once they're checked in,
the app can become an indoor location app
that knows which gallery people are in
based on proximity of this iOS device to
other iOS devices throughout the museum,
let's say.
For example,
you could have iPads at various
points throughout the museum.
And each of those iPads is
running the app for the museum.
It's pushing out an iBeacon, a unique ID,
and it could provide information as
a result to the museum app that is
running on someone's iPhone as they
walk through the museum or as they
walk through the store or as they walk
through whatever situation you've got.
Or even better,
what if the museum's docent
was carrying an iPhone,
running an app that was
causing that iPhone to run?
You could find assistance
from those people,
right?
iBeacons can run on iOS devices today.
The opportunities are endless.
And so that's location,
brief touching on location and iBeacons.
And we think iBeacons are going
to fundamentally change the
way location works for apps,
especially when indoors.
Now, iOS already provides great
API and map kit and core location,
and when combined with
iBeacon and the M7,
you can now add a whole new level
of location awareness in your app.
Not only can you know where
your app is in the world,
but you can know how close it is
to another iOS device or iBeacon.
[ Transcript missing ]
Now let's talk about another
attribute of next-generation apps,
which is multitasking and the fact that
every app should support multitasking.
In iOS 7,
we added multitasking for all apps
in a way that maintains battery life.
And using these multitasking
API means that your app is always
ready for when people want to use it.
And this is key.
Right?
We're all familiar with this,
where iOS 7 is a great app switcher,
and people can see a snapshot of your
app even when it's not the frontmost app,
right?
We double tap the home button,
we get in there, we can move around.
And what's important here is that
you want to make sure that the
snapshot of your app is up to date,
so that when someone taps on your app,
the snapshot matches what will happen
when the app comes to life again.
And most importantly,
you want to be up to date.
When they get into your app,
you don't want to have and many of
you saw this probably the very first
time you ran your app on iOS 7,
you don't want to have just your snapshot
to be a white screen with nothing on it.
Customers don't know then
what's going on in the app,
and it's not a great experience.
So being ready using the
multitasking API correctly is
really important for being up to
date for customers within your app.
And iOS 7 does a lot of things
around multitasking that are
beneficial to you as a developer,
right?
We do intelligent scheduling.
And notice when your
app is typically used,
and we will give it background
cycles based on that usage pattern.
We take advantage of times when
the device is powered up and let
your app do opportunistic updates.
And iOS 7 responds to push notifications.
So as a trigger to give your app time
to go and fetch data that's needed
based on that push notification.
And so there's no more
waiting for screens to reload,
or at least there shouldn't be any
more waiting for screens to reload.
If you're taking advantage
of multitasking on iOS.
correctly.
The way to do this is to take
advantage of the three API that exist.
There's background fetch,
where we will run your app periodically
so that you can pull new data down
and update your UI accordingly.
There's remote notifications,
where we'll run your app in response
to a push notification so that you
can update your content on demand
versus having to poll for information,
which is very inefficient.
And lastly,
there are background transfers,
where iOS will upload or download data
in the background on behalf of your app,
even if it isn't running.
So those three API are very important
for giving a great experience.
And we will talk more about these
API in greater depth today in one
of our sessions this afternoon.
And since you've got new opportunities,
though,
on iOS 7 for your app to be running,
it's even more important than
ever that you are power smart when
you do your background updates.
So let's just talk about
power smart for a moment.
So first, using the network requires
powering the antennas,
regardless of whether you're using Wi-Fi,
cellular, or Bluetooth, right?
If we turn on a radio,
it takes power from the battery.
So be sure to optimize your networking.
not only be transmitting the
least amount of data as necessary,
[ Transcript missing ]
Secondly,
when you want to know the type of
activity that the user is engaged in,
use the M7 processor and the
core motion APIs rather than
doing things manually on the CPU,
as we talked about before.
If you are showing
information in real time,
you can get a constant feed
but only capture the data
from the M7 when you need it.
And lastly,
you can always query the M7 later
by date range so that you don't
have to constantly be updating
information using the CPU.
So there's just new ways of doing things
with M7 and new ways of querying the
system that really prevent having to
wake up the system radios and wake up
the hardware in ways that you used to.
And thirdly,
as far as being power smart is concerned,
you need to be power smart
when using location services.
The core location framework relies on
radios to determine the user's location.
Obviously, right?
We're turning on the radios
to determine Wi-Fi location,
to find cell towers,
all of these kinds of things.
So only use these services when needed.
This will allow us to turn off the
radios in order to save power when
you're not tracking the user's location.
And be sure to use the right service
for the experience that you need.
For example, if you only need to know
what city a person is in,
you can do that without requiring
the finest level of accuracy,
which would use more power.
So if you just need to know the city,
then don't track down to the meter,
which is just far more burdensome on
the system and requires the radios to
be far more active using more power.
So that's multitasking in iOS 7,
which allows your app to always
be ready for when people need it,
and some tips on being power smart
relative to running in the background
and doing some of the things that
are capable and possible there.
And last, but certainly not least,
a next generation app needs to be secure.
More and more users are setting
a passcode on their devices,
and on iPhone 5s,
Touch ID does away with the need for the
passcode most of the time for many users.
And since all of our current
devices support hardware encryption,
when the passcode is set,
data protection is enabled.
And if you're not aware of
how data protection works or
what it means to your app,
today is the day to learn
about how this all works.
I mean,
data protection will encrypt data on disk
using keys based on the user's passcode.
And when an iOS device locks,
we throw away these keys and may no
longer be able to decrypt the data.
By default, that would include keychain
items and files in some cases.
And with the new
multitasking APIs in iOS 7,
your app may be allowed to run
not only in the background,
but also when the device is locked.
And this can be a problem for you,
for example, if you want to update your
app in the background.
You may need to access credentials
in order to log into your server,
but if the device is locked,
you might not be able to
get to those credentials.
So it's really important to understand
how you should approach this situation.
And while data protection is important
for securing data on the device,
it's equally important that you
use the latest best practices when
you transmit data over the network.
Be sure that you're using secure
protocols and verifying certificates.
Whenever possible,
hash sensitive data and always
respect your user's privacy.
There are lots of apps which
are not doing these things.
And for many of these apps
that aren't doing these things,
security is really--
[ Transcript missing ]
So these are the five characteristics
of next-generation iOS apps.
They're optimized for
64-bit on the A7 chip.
They are motion aware with the M7 chip.
They're location aware.
[ Transcript missing ]
And so iOS 7 and our latest
devices make it possible for
you to build apps impossible to
imagine just a few years ago.
I mean, really,
think about it for a moment.
How long have we had apps around?
How long has the apps
ecosystem in iOS been here?
Seven years, right, roughly?
And we are seeing apps
today that were completely,
you know,
that weren't even imagined three, four,
five years ago.
And we as an evangelism team,
we at Apple are working with some
of you already on your next apps and
the next revisions that are coming
for this new hardware and for iOS 7.
And some of this stuff
is just unbelievable.
And so it's just an
exciting time to be here.
And we're seeing apps that just
weren't possible years ago.
And, you know, this hardware and this new
operating system open up
completely new opportunities.
And today is the day to start
learning how to develop for this
new OS and for this new hardware.
And we've got a full day of content
focused specifically on helping
you move to iOS 7 with your app.
We have eight very technical sessions
that are loaded with information,
so get ready to take lots of notes.
We are going to make
videos of these sessions,
but you're going to want
to take notes anyway.
Now, after this session,
we begin with the user
interface design session,
which is up next.
After that,
we've got architecting modern apps.
And in that session,
we will talk about some of
the newest UI kit enhancements
available to your apps in iOS 7.
Following that,
we will have a break for lunch.
And then at 12:30,
so half an hour after lunch,
begins being served,
the App Store marketing team
will talk about distributing and
marketing your apps on the App Store.
So you can either quickly grab some
food and eat outside and then come
into the room for that session.
Or if the lines are too long,
feel free to grab food and
bring it into this room.
That's why we've got tables,
to make it easy to take notes,
make it easy to eat food and drink.
And either way, come back into the room.
You do not want to miss this session.
It's the only non-technical
session of the day.
And then after lunch,
we'll start back up with details on
moving to 64-bit and how to maintain both
iOS 6 and iOS 7 versions of your app.
And following that,
we'll go into detail on the new
multitasking capabilities of iOS 7 that
I referred to briefly a few moments ago.
And then we'll dive into how you
can make your app more secure.
And finally,
we'll wrap up our sessions with
some really valuable and interesting
tips and tricks to get the most--
out of your iOS 7 development.
And this is a very cool session filled
with stuff that many of you-- you've
probably seen some of the buttons.
You've probably heard
about some of these things,
but never dove into.
And you're going to really love
some of these tips and tricks.
And once our sessions are complete,
you're invited to stay and
have some food and drink out
in the lobby out these doors.
And this reception time at the
end of the day is a really fun
time and a valuable time to meet
other developers from-- you know,
that are here in the room today,
and to meet us from Apple and
connect with us even more than
you have throughout the day.
So please make a point of staying for
the reception and meeting your peers and
meeting the rest of the folks from Apple.
In addition to all these sessions,
we have an all-day lab
running in the next room.
And there's going to be
a lot going on in there,
so I want to take a moment just to
explain how this is going to work.
So first of all, I want to ask all of the
Apple employees to come forward.
We have brought-- flown-- a lot of folks
in from Cupertino to meet with you today.
We have Apple engineers from
the iOS engineering team.
We've got UI designers-- six of them,
actually,
available for UI reviews today-- and
lots of other experts from various
teams throughout Apple that you
work with directly-- for example,
AppReview and iTunes
Connect and the App Store team.
So we've got a ton of
resources for you here,
and it would be a crying shame
if you did not leverage the
knowledge and experience that is
standing in front of you right now.
Now, the first thing about the lab
I want to make clear is that
you should feel absolutely free
to go in and out of this room,
back and forth to the
lab throughout the day.
If you just sit here all day and
do not take advantage of the lab,
you're going to miss out on
an enormous resource for you.
Unfortunately,
there's only one of you in some cases,
and you've got to be in-- it's hard
to be in multiple places at one time.
But please, please, please,
if you've got to be in one of the labs,
if you've got a question about something,
go out to the lab.
If you think it's not busy,
Come back in.
Next, we have many topics that
are covered in the labs.
So the first is that we have
design labs where you can schedule
a 30-minute time slot to sit down
with an Apple interface designer.
We've got six of them, as I said,
or an evangelist,
and get feedback and advice
on your app's design,
the visual design,
the interaction design.
And these UI design audits are
intended to review your app's UI,
so you have to be sure to
have an app for us to look at.
Don't sign up for one if you don't
Now,
there are a limited number of time slots.
Even though we've got six designers,
there are more people here,
there are more of you than we
can meet with in half-hour slots.
So you're going to want to boot it out
of this room if you're interested in
this right after this session and sign
up for these right at the main table.
And just go around the corner to
the lab concierge table and sign up,
and we'll give you a time slot.
Now, in addition to UI design sessions,
we've got a lot of these
folks here are iOS engineers,
and they're going to be available to
cover programming and development topics.
And they can answer questions
about most of our frameworks,
about app services, developer tools,
graphics technologies,
and pretty much any technology that
you're using inside of your apps.
Don't be shy.
We can look at code.
We can help you understand the
best way to use a framework.
We can help you architect
your code differently.
And we can help you improve the
performance or integration of your app.
And if you have any technical question,
any question at all, come and see us.
Let us know.
We will do our best to get an answer.
If we have to, we'll call back home to
California to talk to some of our
colleagues and get the answer.
We've got people on standby.
And if you don't have a question,
come by the lab anyway
and show us your app.
And just say, hey, take a look at my app.
What do you think?
And we'll tell you.
And we'll look at things like the
performance and all these things.
And we will point you to somebody
else in the room that you should
meet with to get things done.
So come by the lab, please.
And lastly,
we have members from the app review team,
the iTunes connect team,
and the app store marketing team who
can talk with you about getting your
app through the review process and
getting published on the app store.
Again, don't be shy.
If you have an idea for a future app,
come and talk to them about it.
If you have a revision of your
current app stuck in review,
go talk to somebody about it.
If you want to know how to
work the app store a little bit
better and do better marketing,
come talk to those guys about it.
Don't be shy.
Come by the lab.
We're there and we're in here presenting.
So we hope that you have a great day.
We're really looking forward
to talking to you all,
to meeting with you all.
We know many of you.
Actually, I do personally.
And we'll take a very
short break right now.
And get back going as soon as
possible right at about 10.05 with a
session on designing for iOS 7 apps.
So thanks for spending the day with us.
And have a great day.